---
title: "Reality of universe"
last_modified_at: 2023-10-17T10:30:02-05:00
categories:
  - random
author_profile: false
tags:
  - meditation
---

## Vipassana Meditation

Recently I did a 10 days Vipassana meditation course and I have learned a lot about my body and the nature of the universe. This is a meditation technique that was taught by Gautam Buddha which was used by so many people to attain enlightment and liberation.

From a young age I had a lot of questions regarding the existence and the reality of the universe along with the fundamental and working of the human body. I always felt that to know all the secrets of the universe, we have to dig deep and learn the secrets of the smallest thing that everything the universe is made up of. Of course, with the advancement in technology we begin to find that there are elements with which everything in the universe is made and came electron, proton, neutron model, quarks and then this never stopped. As we started going deep, something new always came up and we still do not know what is that one thing which is the building block of the whole universe.

In this 10 days time, I felt the connection with the universe and felt that the universe is trying to tell me something. And as I kept on asking different questions to the universe, to my suprise I kept getting all the answers. I will try to summarize them on this article regarding what I found.


### God particle
Photon is the god particle with which everything in the universe is made up of. We know that photon has an electric and magnetic field both perpendicular to each other and the direction of the light is perpendicular to these fields. But, there is another field of awareness which is perpendicular to both electric and magnetic field. The feature of this awareness is that it can read the value of the electric and magnetic field of the wave and also the waves around it.

### Exploring the body
During the meditation  course, we were instructed to look at the sensations that were happening on the body. These are the sensation that are generated by our subconsious mind with the effect on our physical body. On the outer skin of our body, we do have some sort of awareness as we feel something that is on our eyes, hair stucked on the thoat as well as some sort of piercing sensation on our outer skin. But with the meditation techique, the abiility to read these kinds of sensation heighted and the sensation that I was feeling can be divided into two types:
1. Painful and heavy sensation
2. Pleasant and fuzzy sensation

This is quite biological phenomenon. Imagine that you really have to go to the bathroom or you are feeling hungry, your body sends out the chemicals to tell you that you are feeling discomfort and you have to act upon this. This is something that we have developed from the years of evolution. The painful sensation that I was experiencing was from the magnetic force and the pleasant senstation that I was experiencing was due to the electric field. And I had the awareness which could feel all these sensation. We were asked to look at these sensation without any judgment.  Whenever these was pain, we just have to look at the pain without any judgment and without any want to avoid the pain and whenever there was pleasant and electric sensation, our job was to watch it without any judgment and without the desire to want this sensation. This way we were going aganist the milliions of years of evolution and being just aware of the sensation without labeling them.

- What happens if you do not want the painful sensation and want to get rid of it?
	 Well in that case, you will be generating more painful sensation and the force of the magnetic field increase and with that you will have the desire to get rid of the sensation and this things goes on the loop and the pain just keeps on increasing.
- What happens if you want more of the pleasant sensation?
	 In this case, while you are enjoying this pleasant sensation you have a desire to get it more. If you have an strong desire to earn money, and if you managed to earn some that will give you very pleasant experience. And your subconsious mind will want it more as it is not on our control. Then with this you have a strong desire to chase this pleasant experience.
- What were we taught to do?
	 We were asked to look at both of the sensation with neutral view so that we can unlearn all of the learning that we have been doing since the dawn of time with evolution. While we were looking at the sensation with just awareness, there effect on us were decreasing. If we could do this to every cell of our body so that the pain and pleasure does not have any sway on us. Even in pain, we will not have any desire to get rid of it and even in happiness we will not have any desire to want it more. While being aware of these sensation, there will come a time when there is no any sensation coming from the body and that is the phase what people called nirvana on spirtual world. It is the phase of extreme bliss.


Another thing that I noticed was my breathing. Whenever I pull in air from my navel it felt like the air has reached the stomach crossing the boundaries of the lungs and during exhale I could feel like the air is passing from both my bottom as well as fromtop of my head while sitting in the crossed legged pose which gave me an idea that the world really does not have solid basis that I used to think and I am just a collection of waves.


But if everything are  just waves how do we see our hands and feet? How are we not scattered all over the place and what keeps us intact?
The answer to this lies on these magnetic and electric sensation that I was feeling earlier. Both magnetic and electric charges have polarity ie ability to attract and repel. Both magnetic field and electric field are used for mobility as well as keeping things intact. Bones, bones sockets, teeths are all joined by the magnetic field and for movement electric field isused. This applies not only to my body but to every thing that exists on the universe from electron, atom and the biggest heavenly bodies in the universe.

Earth has its own magnetic and electric field and so do all the things contained in it and ouside of it. The intensity of the field is strong on the center of the earth. That is why everything is pulled to the center. This concludes that there is no any concept of gravity too as all the attraction is due to the magnetic field that is on earth and the intensity of attraction increases as the objects are closer to the center of Earth.


Think of a black hole that was created during the big bang. The visible universe is vast and expanding with the black hole at the center of it. The vast the expanding universe is, the size of the black hole is very small and nothing even light can escape from it which indicates the polarity of the black hole is electrically and magnetically opposite of the visible light and the black hole might be a 4D object due to which light enters and is not visible since we can not see object in the forth dimension.


This gave me an idea that the awareness field might actually be a black hole which is vibrating with the frequency of the actual black hole at the center of our universe. But we have different heveanly bodies around us like stars, planets and moons which are closer to us which have their own magnetic and electric field which is influencing our personal field as well due to which our frequency shifts from the actual frequency of the universe.


Universe wants our body to vibrate with the vibration of our universe. If we can do so, universe will reward us and if we deviate too much from this frequency then the universe will start punishing us.


From now on, everything we think on this universe is a wave and good vibrations are the ones which are closer to the vibration of the universe and the bad vibrations are such which deviate too much from this universal vibration.
### Eating and Drinking
With everything being just waves, the food that we consume are also only waves. If the food that we eat have good vibration, then when they enter inside of our body comes in contact with our bodily vibration. If there is mismatch in vibration, nature's act comes into play and bring everything to equilibrium.

### Sleep
During deep sleep, only the awareness is there and there is no sense of self. On that condition our body vibrates with the frequency of the universe and then whenever that happens universe starts rewarding us and it does. After a good sleep, you feel very relaxed and that is when true healing happens.

### Sunlight
If feels good to stay on the sunlight. Since we are only waves, these photons can penetrate our body and enters on our field. These photons have good vibration and same thing happens. The field on our body and these photons interact and equilibrium is reached which shifts the vibration of our body closer to  the vibration of the universe.

### Liberation
One thing is very clear that the universe wants our body to vibrate with its frequency and if we managed to do so, we start getting immediate rewards. That is why during meditation, we practice not to engage with bodily sensation and observe them as they are.  During so breaks the loop that we have created freeing from all the sorrows and misery that are created with the vibration inside of our body. If we can do this during death when all the life energy is finished and only awareness remains which has the frequency of the universe, then you become one with the universe and the cycle of reincarnation is broken and with this comes eternal bliss.

Opposite to this if we are very far away from this vibration during death, we now start searching for the body with similar vibration which is borned recently. Then we continue our life as it was just before death. This is the act of karma. If we have deviate all lot from the vibration with which the universe vibrates, we might have the body of other animals which have very low vibration and if the vibration is good and in sync with the universe, we might be able to go to the 4th dimension inside black hole.



# Conclusion
From this we can conclude that all of the things on this universe are just waves. There is no mass or gravity. We can not see the world as it is due to the limitation of our eyes or the devices that we have. De Broglie said that the electron can either be a particle or wave at a same time, well I say that it was never a particle and the electron is always a wave. 

Another thing to take away from this is the nature of the universe. It rewards those who have vibration closer to its and punishes those who are far away. With that thing in mind, we should try and find out how we should live our day to day precious life in this Earth as only human are capable of this and have chance to get liberation from all these worldly pain and sorrow.

Also the consequences of not obeying the rules of the universe should be kept in mind and the body that we might find after the rebirth might not be a human body.

Please do not take my word for it. Try Vipassana meditation and find it our yourself.



### Questions for you
- You are average of the people around you. Why?
- People around nature seem to be very happy and in peace. Why?
- People in the cities are comparatively unhappy despite of all the facilities and opportunities. Why?
- People in cold regions and people who avoid spending time on sunlight are sad compared to people in sunny areas. Why?
- People who get plenty of sleep are happy than people do not get enough sleep and not sleeping straight for few days can seriously impacts the health. Why?
- Why people are so into alcohol and drugs? 
- What kinds of people considered soul mates?
- Why does listening to music provides pleasant sensation?
